To illustrate that least privilege does not apply just to computer permissions,
let's take a look at a scenario for physical controls.
A major part of gaining valuable experience in college comes from internships.
Every summer, thousands of college students fan out across the country into experience,
and connection making internships.
In this example, our student will be spending
the summer at an organization and a heavily regulated industry.
They will be performing their work in a high-rise building in a major city.
Because this organization is subject to heavy regulation,
they have a strong physical security program
to protect their intellectual property, and customer data.
They use proximity cards for access throughout the facility.
They have a robust scheduling component as a feature of their security program.
It is integrated into
their collaboration portal so managers can make real-time adjustments.
The interns work schedule is 10:00-4:00 Monday through Friday.
Their card will only allow them to utilize
the parking deck one hour before to one hour after.
Lobby access is also limited to a marginally expanded workday.
The elevators require card access to enter,
and will only allow approved floor selection,
and after hours will only travel to the lobby.
Stairwells have the same access as the elevators.
The lobby is always open for fire escape purposes.
Within the floor the intern will be working in,
they will only have access to the department to which they are assigned.
As you can see, by implementing the principle of least privilege,
the organization has greatly decreased the likelihood of unauthorized physical access.